---
title: The theatre needs trans people, and trans people need the theatre
date: 2025-04-19
---
Last Tuesday, and Thursday, we held auditions for Lace Market Theatre's production of 'The Prince', by trans author Abigail Thorn. To my knowledge, this is only the second production of the play to be licensed, and the first to be shown in the UK, following the original West End version. 

I was overwhelmingly inspired by the auditionees who showed up to try out for the three trans parts in the play. Me, my assistant director, and the two casting advisors were overjoyed to see the theatre's bar area full of people. Most of the auditionees had never been to Lace Market Theatre, but also, they were people who are not normally seen on stage at any theatre. It felt like an unofficial meetup of half the trans women and transfemmes in Nottingham, alongside a variety of cis and trans people going for the other parts in the show. The atmosphere was buzzing, and only got more joyful as each group of auditionees completed their pieces, many no doubt relieved at having completed their first auditions ever, or perhaps in a very long time. It breaks my heart that we can't give parts to many more people whose auditions totally delighted us.

[The ruling from the UK Supreme Court, which defines a woman as 'biological',](https://www.wearequeeraf.com/uk-supreme-court-rules-that-trans-women-arent-women-under-the-equality-act-2010/) with an aim to excluding trans women from this definition, was published the day after the first round of auditions. I am angry, devastated, despairing, and still feeling scared about how this so called 'clarification' will affect the lives of myself and my community. I believe the ruling will affect trans women, and nonbinary people to a greater extent than binary trans men like me, but I cannot feel any sense of security when a threat like this is posed to the community at large, and which is a clear prelude to even more fascist policies being introduced in the UK.

It broke my heart to think of all the incredible, brave trans people who came to the audition, who this weekend have to deal with the awful news of the ruling, on top of their audition rejection. I wouldn't usually feel responsible for the hurt of an audition rejection. We can't cast everyone, it's just not a play where that is possible. But, in the past four years, I have been working to encourage more trans people to explore theatre, in some capacity, because I believe theatre is of great value to our community. Given the particular circumstances of this week, this is not going to feel like a normal audition rejection, and at this time of fear and misery, where trans people need to support each other, I wanted to do something about that. I wanted to write a love letter to the trans people we didn't cast, and a plea to them to not give up on theatre as an expressive and liberatory art form.

First of all, I want you to recognise that you did something incredibly brave, and you should be so proud of yourself. As evidenced in [the circumstances surrounding the Supreme Court ruling,](https://goodlawproject.org/the-supreme-court-ignored-trans-voices-im-ashamed-of-what-our-law-has-become/) the UK government believes that trans people do not have the right to have a say about anything, even on legislation that disproportionately affects us. At the highest level, this country believes that we should all just shut up. Well, we shouldn't shut up. We need to get louder, and louder. And many things have conspired to make trans people quieter. Childhood bullying, abusive parents, workplace teasing, doctors who refuse to listen, homelessness, doxxing, millions of pounds of anti-trans lobbying, and among all this, our own dysphoria.

But there are ways to learn to be louder. A big misconception about theatre is that it's only for extroverts. I'm definitely an introvert. I spend a lot of my down time on my own, and while I have a big professional network, I only have the emotional energy to commit to a few close friends. Social situations and working in a small office tire me out, on a daily basis. And yet, theatre is my chosen profession. Theatre is what I will always live for, and it has literally given me my voice. Lace Market Theatre knew me before I was Laurie, and the membership accepted my transition with a love and respect that still makes me emotional to this day.

Theatre, performance and ritual has been the lifeblood of communities and resistance for thousands of years, across the world. Any protest group using imagery, costume, music, bodies, and voice, to make their point and make it in a way that sears the minds and hearts of the public, that protest group is using the tools of theatre. Any person who is loud enough to be heard at the back of a crowd, whether by voice alone, or by effective use of a microphone, that person is using the tools of theatre. Any person who can write and speak a speech that clearly articulates their point of view, their emotions behind it, and why it should matter to everyone listening, that person is using the tools of theatre. Any person who can show the people around them the foul contradiction between what the state claims to stand for and what the state actually does, and can make us laugh at it in the process, that person is using the tools of theatre.

In the UK, where the arts has been defunded, and defunded, and where every politician claims the arts are a waste of time and money, where so much theatre is trapped in the binary of 'audience sit there, actors stand there', where a theatre ticket costs more than a food budget for an entire week, it's very easy to make an argument that theatre is just another white, middle-class, middle-aged hobby. But that's not what 'theatre' actually is. That unaffordable, classist, neo-liberal farce is just 'commercial theatre', a product that the theatre industry can make the most money from, and which we therefore hear the most about in day-to-day life under capitalism.

To me, theatre starts from, simply, a live experience between a performer and an audience member. And from there, you can take that principle in so many different directions. It could be goth kids dancing in the Market Square, knowing that they stand out to the passers by, and that they look unlike anything else on the street. It could be a stand-up comedian playing to an audience of 7 people, who laugh so hard their faces ache, and wonder how they never saw the world this way. It could be an improv group who wouldn't be caught dead calling themselves actors, but who play scenes more devastating than any scripted play you've ever seen. It could be a showcase of weird little character pieces, with homemade costumes in a venue you didn't realise 'even did stuff like this'. Or, it could be a workshop where people learn how their voice works, and how to use it safely, kind of like how stage actors do, but these people need their voices to help them play a role in the unfolding story of their own lives. That's just a pinch of the things that theatre means to me.

Anyone who knows me knows that I co-run trans voice workshops, where me, and a Speech and Language Therapist blend techniques from the voice clinic and the theatre to give trans people an understanding of their voice as a physical system, and as a tool for self-expression. The sessions often attract people who struggle to use their voices confidently in day-to-day activities like talking on the phone, and ordering food at a restaurant. At the auditions for 'The Prince' last week, I recognised so many people, willing to stand on a stage, and be proud, and loud, and unapologetically trans, and I knew that I had met those people for the first time, at the trans voice workshops. 

I don't want my rejection to be the reason someone never bothers trying theatre again, in this time where trying anything again might feel so futile. I truly believe that if more trans people engage with theatre, in whatever form that may be, we will equip ourselves with important skills for resistance, community, and sustainability.

What more can theatre teach us? I believe dance and physical theatre can teach us to use our bodies to stand our ground. I believe documentary and verbatim theatre gives us a place to tell our stories, without the shadow of the corrupt British press strangling the narrative. I believe comedy is where we show the world how trans people see and subvert life's contrasts, contradictions, and binaries. I believe improv gives us a world to spin stories and characters, where our bodies and genders and everything else is sublimely undefined, until we need it to be. I believe the world of canonical theatre gives us ancient stories, that still need to be told and re-told, in every lifetime, and this time, by trans people.

If you didn't get a part, please don't worry. 

You are the next part.

---

[[nottstheatre|Click here to find out how to get involved with theatre in Nottingham.]]