---
title: Trying to decouple myself from proprietary software
date: 2025-03-02
---
A log of my progress moving away from software that requires me to rent services from companies.

## Completed
- **My Website** *23/01/25* I regard this as completed, because I have no real desire to ever host my domain locally. I have, however, moved the actual design and maintenance of my website from Wix to [11ty](https://www.11ty.dev/), served by [Netlify](https://www.netlify.com/). It's a lot more hassle but I would never go back (at this point) [[whyweb|Read more here.]]. 
  - *15/01/2026* I have now migrated my domain away from GoDaddy, to Namecheap. The only issue I encountered was that for some reason, no matter what I tried (and I tried for hours, over about 3 weeks) I could not log into my Outlook in any other email client, not even with support from NameCheap. This means that I could not migrate my emails over. I still currently have access to my old emails, but I have to forward them to myself to get access to them. I forwarded myself important bits and bobs like reciepts, but I have occasionally had to ask clients to re-send me important docs that I was too lazy to save as soon as I recieved them. So lesson learned there. I also much more regularly make PDFs of important email trails, so that they can be kept separately.
- **Note-taking** [Obsidian Notes](https://obsidian.md/). I love the philosophy of 'linking my thinking'. I don't use the Zettelkasten system perfectly, but my notes have never been easier to sort and find things in.

## In Progress
- **Cloud Storage** *28/01/25* In the past few months, I've been trying out [NextCloud](https://nextcloud.com/install/), using a free account, provided by [Tab.Digital](https://cloud.tab.digital/). I've been trying to use it more lately but its AutoUpload is a little bit unreliable. Everything syncs, just usually within an hour rather than seconds, which is annoying but not critically damaging. I have pretty much stopped using Google Photo to back up photos from my phone, which feels like a win. I haven't tested how good it is at collaborative editing. I'm sure it could be better if I self-hosted, but I'm not in a position to do that yet. 
  - *UPDATE: 11/02/25* So, AutoUpload for photos seems to work pretty consistently for photos now, but refuses to sync backups of some really specific weird files. 
  - *UPDATE: 2/03/25* I think I may be stupid. I think NC's auto-upload is just for photos and videos. Trying to set up a SyncThing folder for my Whatsapp databases instead. Also, I am investigating [Hetzner](https://www.hetzner.com/) as a potential host for my cloud. I'm not confident self-hosting, but Hetzner seem like a decent company. I think it would be cool if I was a NC administrator for a group of other people in my area who also want to de-Google, as this would bring down host costs significantly. I'm currently clarifying with Hetzner how their E2EE works, to see if this is viable.
  - *15-01-26* I've now been with TheGoodCloud for nearly a year with almost no issues with regards to storing and editing files on the cloud, and between my phone and two laptops, as an individual. My one major gripe is that when I try to share documents as a link with people, they almost invariably cannot open it on their phone, and cannot edit it. 
    - Also, in my opinion, videocalling on Nextcloud is prohibitively expensive for individuals, and small businesses, and when I tried to get it working on CloudAmo, who claimed it was included in my subscription, I tried about 3 times, and even got support from customer services, and still never got it working correctly (Cloudamo were just crap generally, so I cancelled my subscription with them, and moved to TheGoodCloud, who offer it for small businesses only). 
    - So, currently, Google Docs is still my tool of choice for collaborative working. Additionally, while TheGoodCloud provide the best service, it's still much more expensive than Microsoft, and they give you less cloud storage. This is fine for me, as 100GB is more than enough for me, as the main mediums I work in are documents and images, but if you work as a video editor or with other kinds of massive files, and you need TBs, I can see a financial barrier here.
- I also use [SyncThing](https://syncthing.net/) for files that are nice to sync between my phone and computer but which I would prefer were not on Cloud storage, like my music and my Obsidian notes. This is a bit fiddly to set up, but it works.

- **Media Center** *23/01/25* This week, I've started using [Plex](https://www.plex.tv/) to organise films and TV, and I really like it so far. I don't have a way to serve to my phone remotely, but it's just nice to finally be able to organise all my random videos. I have several DVDs of acting masterclasses and recordings of plays, which are a faff to get out during classes to show as examples. This system will hopefully make it much easier to access what I need.
  - *2/03/25* Plex works pretty well. I've used it to organise some of my Adventure Time DVDs and I like that it pulls IMDB info into the interface for me.
  - *15/01/26* Still happily using Plex. I like that my Plex collection says something about me as an individual. The next step is to set up a home server, and get the files off my laptop and onto a NAS.

- **Document Editing** *28/01/25* Wow, I saw that Microsoft is changing peoples' subscriptions so that they are now paying for Copilot and I am noping the fuck out of that. I have redoubled my efforts to get used to [LibreOffice](https://www.libreoffice.org/). I'm not feeling optimistic about table formatting and fonts, but maybe I just need to get used to exporting more stuff as PDFs. I also tried out [Etherpad](https://framapad.org/abc/en/) with a workshop class, and it seemed to work quite well (although doesn't have as many formatting options as Google Docs, which is a shame.)
  - *2/03/25* LibreOffice Writer and Calc seem to be working well so far. I use .md files on Nextcloud for unformatted notes, and anything that I need to read directly off my phone while speaking. One annoying thing about Writer is that Styles seem much more fiddly than they are on Word. But then again, I don't really have to change styles very often, and if I need a really nicely formatted leaflet, I use a graphic design package like Canva, rather than a word processor.
  - *15/01/26* About a year on, I don't miss Microsoft at all. I will use it if an organisation pays for it, but it's completely unnecessary for my freelance work. Unless someone needs to edit a document that I'm sending them, I export everything that I send to people as a PDF to avoid compatibility issues, but even then, I think that's probably a bit unnecessary. I had a go at using Etherpad as a collaborative document platform but it has exactly the same problems editing and viewing on a phone as NextCloud.

- **Accounting** *11/02/25* Manager.io is my choice so far. I like that you can customise the interface to show as many or as few buttons as you need.
  - *15/01/26* Binned off Manager.io and back to a spreadsheet, but this time in LibreOffice Calc. I think I'm just too dumb to understand accounting apps or something. I just don't really understand how people make those apps record the accounting info that they need. I tried another piece of software called Crunch a while ago and had similar problems of 'I just don't get it'.

- **Navigation** *2/03/25* I'm testing out Organic Maps and OSMAnd. OSMAnd has an overwhelming amount of features and I find the interface a bit cluttered, even if you turn a bunch of options off. I think I prefer Organic Maps.
  - *16/01/26* Trying to use Organic Maps when I can, but Google Maps undoubtedly has better public transport info, which I need to use a lot.

## Nowhere Near/Aspirations
- **Surveys** NextCloud has a utility for this, and there are lots of self-hosted options.
- **Videoconferencing** Not obvious what might be the best option, but [Sprout Video](https://sproutvideo.com/pricing) and [NextCloud Talk](https://nextcloud.com/talk/) seem to be the most promising. Particularly as I'm thinking of moving my cloud storage to NextCloud.
  - *2/03/25* NextCloud Talk is looking more and more likely to be the service I eventually go with, as it would be one of several apps integrated with NextCloud.
  - *16/01/26* Never managed to get NextCloud Talk off the ground as an individual, but I've heard it works fine in businesses where everyone has a NextCloud login. It will be interesting to see how this tech develops, given that a couple of governmental departments in Europe have started moving to FOSS large-scale office solutions. Maybe NextCloud will start making it easier to use Talk without having to have an enterprise account.
- **Music Streaming** Hoping to leave Spotify behind and use Plex or Jellyfin to host music. Also just using offline downloads for my most-listened collections.
- **Social Media** *11/02/25* I am trying to spend less time on social media. I have started a Signal group, where I am going to post links to fun stuff happening around my city. 11 people have already joined. I made the group in an attempt to help myself and people like me, to avoid using Facebook as the only way to find out when events are happening. In the past few days, I have removed Facebook from the main screen of my phone and turned off notifications. I have made a list of websites for small businesses and organisations who host fun indie events, and every day, I check what's coming up in the next few weeks and post it on the Signal group. When I run out of events, I look for local community newspaper websites, and charities, and post some of their links too.
  - *15/01/26* I eventually stopped running this newsletter, which is sad, but even just collating all the events became too much work, and I got really overwhelmed in 2025. I would love to start it again, and I wish that more of my circle was on Signal rather than WhatsApp.
  - **Bluesky** I'm enjoying Bluesky, a lot of the arts industry and my creative community has moved there, and there are good and bad points about the platform, but by God, it's setting a pretty decent example. However, I still find a lot of really good content on Mastodon, particularly for independent journalism, open source/homebrew tech.
    - *15/01/26* Don't use Bluesky a lot, but seems to have become a passable alternative to x. Mastodon is my favourite platform still, as I feel like I see the most interesting conversations, and often end up clicking links to long reads that challenge me. Unfortunately, it's still absolutely full of pretentious, Linux-using, off-putting cunts like myself.
  - **Signal** I really want to move to this wholesale, but so many of my communications are currently hooked into the WhatsApp ecosystem. WhatsApp groups are a big way that I find out about upcoming events and jobs. A lot of people I know are reluctant to use another app that appears to work similarly to WhatsApp.
  - **Facebook** This is such a pain. Facebook is the main way I digitally advertise most of the projects I'm involved with, like Club Wormhole, Trans Voice, Lace Market Theatre, etc.
    - *15/01/26* Fuck Facebook. Still use it every single day.
  - **In person meetups** *15/01/26* I've started arranging shabbat dinners at my house twice a month, to try and see my friends in person more regularly. The real social media should be latkes and wine!